Now that you have a familiarity with different approaches to data science,
it's time to learn about the different types of data science problems.
Data science problems can come in a variety of forms.
In this section, we will discuss the major categories of
data science methods you're likely to encounter in your data science journey.
Perhaps the most common among these is supervised learning.
This target a designated outcome,
whether it be a numerical value,
such as a customer's annual spend, or a category,
such as the likelihood that a customer will
cancel their subscription to a company service.
With supervised learning, the main goal is usually prediction.
How can I predict, for example,
a customer lifetime value or assign a credit score or forecast revenues and profits?
These examples predict against a numerical outcome and are known as regression problems.
The other type of supervised learning problem
focuses on predicting a categorical outcome.
These are known as classification problems.
Examples of classification problems include
predicting failure in a manufacturing context,
predicting whether a machine will be hacked,
identifying fraudulent online transactions,
diagnosing medical conditions, and tagging e-mail in categories such as work,
friends, family, hobby, and news.
Classification and regression tasks aim to understand an outcome,
which is the main thing that characterizes them as supervised learning methods.
One particularly powerful supervised learning approach is known as deep learning.
Deep learning uses an algorithmic approach called neural networks to
perform many classification tasks that are
commonly used in artificial intelligence today.
Speech recognition, computer vision, facial recognition,
self-driving cars, and voice enabled
digital assistants all have their technical foundations in deep learning.
Entire courses are taught on deep learning alone.
But here we will treat it as one of many supervised learning methods in data science.